docs/advanced.rst, before:

.. _advanced:

Advanced Usage
==============

Optical character recognition is the serial execution of multiple steps, in the
case of kraken, layout analysis/page segmentation (extracting topological text
lines from an image), recognition (feeding text lines images into a
classifier), and finally serialization of results into an appropriate format
such as ALTO or PageXML.

Input and Outputs
-----------------

Kraken inputs and their outputs can be defined in multiple ways. The most
simple are input-output pairs, i.e. producing one output document for one input
document follow the basic syntax:

.. code-block:: console

        $ kraken -i input_1 output_1 -i input_2 output_2 ... subcommand_1 subcommand_2 ... subcommand_n

In particular subcommands may be chained.

There are other ways to define inputs and outputs as the syntax shown above can
become rather cumbersome for large amounts of files.

As such there are a couple of ways to deal with multiple files in a compact
way. The first is batch processing:

.. code-block:: console

        $ kraken -I '*.png' -o ocr.txt segment ...

which expands the `glob expression
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glob_(programming)>`_ in kraken internally and
appends the suffix defined with `-o` to each output file. An input file
`xyz.png` will therefore produce an output file `xyz.png.ocr.txt`. A second way
is to input multi-image files directly. These can be either in PDF, TIFF, or
JPEG2000 format and are specified like:

.. code-block:: console

        $ kraken -I some.pdf -o ocr.txt -f pdf segment ...

This will internally extract all page images from the input PDF file and write
one output file with an index (can be changed using the `-p` option) and the
suffix defined with `-o`.

The `-f` option can not only be used to extract data from PDF/TIFF/JPEG2000
files but also various XML formats. In these cases the appropriate data is
automatically selected from the inputs, image data for segmentation or line and
region segmentation for recognition:

.. code-block:: console

        $ kraken -i alto.xml alto.ocr.txt -i page.xml page.ocr.txt -f xml ocr ...

The code is able to automatically determine if a file is in PageXML or ALTO format.

Output formats
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

All commands have a default output format such as raw text for `ocr`, a plain
image for `binarize`, or a JSON definition of the the segmentation for
`segment`. These are specific to kraken and generally not suitable for further
processing by other software but a number of standardized data exchange formats
can be selected. Per default `ALTO <http://www.loc.gov/standards/alto/>`_,
`PageXML <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PAGE_(XML)>`_, `hOCR
<http://hocr.info>`_, and abbyyXML containing additional metadata such as
bounding boxes and confidences are implemented. In addition, custom `jinja
<https://jinja.palletsprojects.com>`_ templates can be loaded to create
individualised output such as TEI.

Output formats are selected on the main `kraken` command and apply to the last
subcommand defined in the subcommand chain. For example:

.. code-block:: console

        $ kraken --alto -i ... segment -bl

will serialize a plain segmentation in ALTO into the specified output file.

The currently available format switches are:

.. code-block:: console

        $ kraken -n -i ... ... # native output
        $ kraken -a -i ... ... # ALTO output
        $ kraken -x -i ... ... # PageXML output
        $ kraken -h -i ... ... # hOCR output
        $ kraken -y -i ... ... # abbyyXML output

Custom templates can be loaded with the ``--template`` option:

.. code-block:: console

        $ kraken --template /my/awesome/template.tmpl -i ... ...

The data objects used by the templates are considered internal to kraken and
can change from time to time. The best way to get some orientation when writing
a new template from scratch is to have a look at the existing templates `here
<https://github.com/mittagessen/kraken/tree/main/kraken/templates>`_.

Binarization
------------

.. _binarization:

.. note::

   Binarization is deprecated and mostly not necessary anymore. It can often
   worsen text recognition results especially for documents with uneven
   lighting, faint writing, etc.

The binarization subcommand converts a color or grayscale input image into an
image containing only two color levels: white (background) and black
(foreground, i.e. text). It accepts almost the same parameters as
``ocropus-nlbin``. Only options not related to binarization, e.g. skew
detection are missing. In addition, error checking (image sizes, inversion
detection, grayscale enforcement) is always disabled and kraken will happily
binarize any image that is thrown at it.

Available parameters are:

============    ====
option          type
============    ====
\--threshold    FLOAT
\--zoom         FLOAT
\--escale       FLOAT
\--border       FLOAT
\--perc         INTEGER RANGE
\--range        INTEGER
\--low          INTEGER RANGE
\--high         INTEGER RANGE
============    ====

To binarize a image:

.. code-block:: console

        $ kraken -i input.jpg bw.png binarize

.. note::

        Some image formats, notably JPEG, do not support a black and white
        image mode. Per default the output format according to the output file
        name extension will be honored. If this is not possible, a warning will
        be printed and the output forced to PNG:

        .. code-block:: console

                $ kraken -i input.jpg bw.jpg binarize
                Binarizing	[06/24/22 09:56:23] WARNING  jpeg does not support 1bpp images. Forcing to png.
                ✓

Page Segmentation
-----------------

The `segment` subcommand accesses page segmentation into lines and regions with
the two layout analysis methods implemented: the trainable baseline segmenter
that is capable of detecting both lines of different types and regions and a
legacy non-trainable segmenter that produces bounding boxes.

Universal parameters of either segmenter are:

=============================================== ======
option                                          action
=============================================== ======
-d, \--text-direction                           Sets principal text direction. Valid values are `horizontal-lr`, `horizontal-rl`, `vertical-lr`, and `vertical-rl`.
-m, \--mask                                     Segmentation mask suppressing page areas for line detection. A simple black and white mask image where 0-valued (black) areas are ignored for segmentation purposes.
=============================================== ======

Baseline Segmentation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The baseline segmenter works by applying a segmentation model on a page image
which labels each pixel on the image with one or more classes with each class
corresponding to a line or region of a specific type. In addition there are two
auxiliary classes that are used to determine the line orientation. A simplified
example of a composite image of the auxiliary classes and a single line type
without regions can be seen below:

.. image:: _static/blla_heatmap.jpg
  :width: 800
  :alt: BLLA output heatmap

In a second step the raw heatmap is vectorized to extract line instances and
region boundaries, followed by bounding polygon computation for the baselines,
and text line ordering. The final output can be visualized as:

.. image:: _static/blla_output.jpg
  :width: 800
  :alt: BLLA final output

The primary determinant of segmentation quality is the segmentation model
employed. There is a default model that works reasonably well on printed and
handwritten material on undegraded, even writing surfaces such as paper or
parchment. The output of this model consists of a single line type and a
generic text region class that denotes coherent blocks of text. This model is
employed automatically when the baseline segment is activated with the `-bl`
option:

.. code-block:: console

   $ kraken -i input.jpg segmentation.json segment -bl

New models optimized for other kinds of documents can be trained (see
:ref:`here <segtrain>`). These can be applied with the `-i` option of the
`segment` subcommand:

.. code-block:: console

   $ kraken -i input.jpg segmentation.json segment -bl -i fancy_model.mlmodel

Legacy Box Segmentation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The legacy page segmentation is mostly parameterless, although a couple of
switches exist to tweak it for particular inputs. Its output consists of
rectangular bounding boxes in reading order and the general text direction
(horizontal, i.e. LTR or RTL text in top-to-bottom reading order or
vertical-ltr/rtl for vertical lines read from left-to-right or right-to-left).

Apart from the limitations of the bounding box paradigm (rotated and curved
lines cannot be effectively extracted) another important drawback of the legacy
segmenter is the requirement for binarized input images. It is therefore
necessary to apply :ref:`binarization <binarization>` first or supply only
pre-binarized inputs.

The legacy segmenter can be applied on some input image with:

.. code-block:: console

        $ kraken -i 14.tif lines.json segment -x
        $ cat lines.json

Available specific parameters are:

=============================================== ======
option                                          action
=============================================== ======
\--scale FLOAT                                  Estimate of the average line height on the page
-m, \--maxcolseps                               Maximum number of columns in the input document. Set to `0` for uni-column layouts.
-b, \--black-colseps / -w, \--white-colseps     Switch to black column separators.
-r, \--remove-hlines / -l, \--hlines            Disables prefiltering of small horizontal lines. Improves segmenter output on some Arabic texts.
-p, \--pad                                      Adds left and right padding around lines in the output.
=============================================== ======

Principal Text Direction
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The principal text direction selected with the ``-d/--text-direction`` is a
switch used in the reading order heuristic to determine the order of text
blocks (regions) and individual lines. It roughly corresponds to the `block
flow direction
<https://www.w3.org/TR/css-writing-modes-3/#block-flow-direction>`_ in CSS with
an additional option. Valid options consist of two parts, an initial principal
line orientation (`horizontal` or `vertical`) followed by a block order (`lr`
for left-to-right or `rl` for right-to-left).

.. warning:

        The principal text direction is independent of the direction of the
        *inline text direction* (which is left-to-right for writing systems like
        Latin and right-to-left for ones like Hebrew or Arabic). Kraken deals
        automatically with the inline text direction through the BiDi algorithm
        but can't infer the principal text direction automatically as it is
        determined by factors like layout, type of document, primary script in
        the document, and other factors. The different types of text
        directionality and their relation can be confusing, the `W3C writing
        mode <https://www.w3.org/TR/css-writing-modes-3/>`_ document explains
        the fundamentals, although the model used in Kraken differs slightly.

The first part is usually `horizontal` for scripts like Latin, Arabic, or
Hebrew where the lines are horizontally oriented on the page and are written/read from
top to bottom:

.. image:: _static/bw.png
  :width: 800
  :alt: Horizontal Latin script text

Other scripts like Chinese can be written with vertical lines that are
written/read from left to right or right to left:

.. image:: https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/66/Chinese_manuscript_Ti-i_ch%27i-shu._Wellcome_L0020843.jpg/577px-Chinese_manuscript_Ti-i_ch%27i-shu._Wellcome_L0020843.jpg
  :width: 800
  :alt: Vertical Chinese text

The second part is dependent on a number of factors as the order in which text
blocks are read is not fixed for every writing system. In mono-script texts it
is usually determined by the inline text direction, i.e. Latin script texts
columns are read starting with the top-left column followed by the column to
its right and so on, continuing with the left-most column below if none remain
to the right (inverse for right-to-left scripts like Arabic which start on the
top right-most columns, continuing leftward, and returning to the right-most
column just below when none remain).

In multi-script documents the order of is determined by the primary writing
system employed in the document, e.g. for a modern book containing both Latin
and Arabic script text it would be set to `lr` when Latin is primary, e.g. when
the binding is on the left side of the book seen from the title cover, and
vice-versa (`rl` if binding is on the right on the title cover). The analogue
applies to text written with vertical lines.

With these explications there are four different text directions available:

=============================================== ======
Text Direction                                  Examples
=============================================== ======
horizontal-lr                                   Latin script texts, Mixed LTR/RTL docs with principal LTR script
horizontal-rl                                   Arabic script texts, Mixed LTR/RTL docs with principal RTL script
vertical-lr                                     Vertical script texts read from left-to-right.
vertical-rl                                     Vertical script texts read from right-to-left.
=============================================== ======

Masking
^^^^^^^

It is possible to keep the segmenter from finding text lines and regions on
certain areas of the input image. This is done through providing a binary mask
image that has the same size as the input image where blocked out regions are
black and valid regions white:

.. code-block:: console

        $ kraken -i input.jpg segmentation.json segment -bl -m mask.png

Model Repository
----------------

.. _repo:

There is a semi-curated `repository
<https://zenodo.org/communities/ocr_models>`_ of freely licensed recognition
models that can be interacted with from the command line using a few
subcommands.

Querying and Model Retrieval
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The ``list`` subcommand retrieves a list of all models available and prints
them including some additional information (identifier, type, and a short
description):

.. code-block:: console

        $ kraken list
        Retrieving model list ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━ 100% 8/8 0:00:00 0:00:07
        10.5281/zenodo.6542744 (pytorch) - LECTAUREP Contemporary French Model (Administration)
        10.5281/zenodo.5617783 (pytorch) - Cremma-Medieval Old French Model (Litterature)
        10.5281/zenodo.5468665 (pytorch) - Medieval Hebrew manuscripts in Sephardi bookhand version 1.0
        ...

To access more detailed information the ``show`` subcommand may be used:

.. code-block:: console

        $ kraken show 10.5281/zenodo.5617783
        name: 10.5281/zenodo.5617783

        Cremma-Medieval Old French Model (Litterature)

        ....
        scripts: Latn
        alphabet: &'(),-.0123456789:;?ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVXabcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz¶ãíñõ÷ħĩłũƺᵉẽ’•⁊⁹ꝑꝓꝯꝰ SPACE, COMBINING ACUTE ACCENT, COMBINING TILDE, COMBINING MACRON, COMBINING ZIGZAG ABOVE, COMBINING LATIN SMALL LETTER A, COMBINING LATIN SMALL LETTER E, COMBINING LATIN SMALL LETTER I, COMBINING LATIN SMALL LETTER O, COMBINING LATIN SMALL LETTER U, COMBINING LATIN SMALL LETTER C, COMBINING LATIN SMALL LETTER R, COMBINING LATIN SMALL LETTER T, COMBINING UR ABOVE, COMBINING US ABOVE, COMBINING LATIN SMALL LETTER S, 0xe8e5, 0xf038, 0xf128
        accuracy: 95.49%
        license: CC-BY-SA-2.0
        author(s): Pinche, Ariane
        date: 2021-10-29

If a suitable model has been decided upon it can be retrieved using the ``get``
subcommand:

.. code-block:: console

        $ kraken get 10.5281/zenodo.5617783
        Processing ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━ 100% 16.1/16.1 MB 0:00:00 0:00:10
        Model name: cremma_medieval_bicerin.mlmodel

Models will be placed in ``$XDG_BASE_DIR`` and can be accessed using their name as
printed in the last line of the ``kraken get`` output.

.. code-block:: console

        $ kraken -i ... ... ocr -m cremma_medieval_bicerin.mlmodel

Publishing
^^^^^^^^^^

When one would like to share a model with the wider world (for fame and glory!)
it is possible (and recommended) to upload them to repository. The process
consists of 2 stages: the creation of the deposit on the Zenodo platform
followed by approval of the model in the community making it discoverable for
other kraken users.

For uploading model a Zenodo account and a personal access token is required.
After account creation tokens can be created under the account settings:

.. image:: _static/pat.png
  :width: 800
  :alt: Zenodo token creation dialogue

With the token models can then be uploaded:

.. code-block:: console

   $ ketos publish -a $ACCESS_TOKEN aaebv2-2.mlmodel
   DOI: 10.5281/zenodo.5617783

A number of important metadata will be asked for such as a short description of
the model, long form description, recognized scripts, and authorship.
Afterwards the model is deposited at Zenodo. This deposit is persistent, i.e.
can't be changed or deleted so it is important to make sure that all the
information is correct. Each deposit also has a unique persistent identifier, a
DOI, that can be used to refer to it, e.g. in publications or when pointing
someone to a particular model.

Once the deposit has been created a request (requiring manual approval) for
inclusion in the repository will automatically be created which will make it
discoverable by other users.

It is possible to deposit models without including them in the queryable
repository. Models uploaded this way are not truly private and can still be
found through the standard Zenodo search and be downloaded with `kraken get`
and its DOI. It is mostly suggested for preliminary models that might get
updated later:

.. code-block:: console

   $ ketos publish --private -a $ACCESS_TOKEN aaebv2-2.mlmodel
   DOI: 10.5281/zenodo.5617734

Recognition
-----------

Recognition requires a grey-scale or binarized image, a page segmentation for
that image, and a model file. In particular there is no requirement to use the
page segmentation algorithm contained in the ``segment`` subcommand or the
binarization provided by kraken.

Multi-script recognition is possible by supplying a script-annotated
segmentation and a mapping between scripts and models:

.. code-block:: console

        $ kraken -i ... ... ocr -m Grek:porson.clstm -m Latn:antiqua.clstm

All polytonic Greek text portions will be recognized using the `porson.clstm`
model while Latin text will be fed into the `antiqua.clstm` model. It is
possible to define a fallback model that other text will be fed to:

.. code-block:: console

        $ kraken -i ... ... ocr -m ... -m ... -m default:porson.clstm

It is also possible to disable recognition on a particular script by mapping to
the special model keyword `ignore`. Ignored lines will still be serialized but
will not contain any recognition results.

Commit message:

Also document that -I can be specified multiple times

docs/advanced.rst, after:

.. _advanced:

Advanced Usage
==============

Optical character recognition is the serial execution of multiple steps, in the
case of kraken, layout analysis/page segmentation (extracting topological text
lines from an image), recognition (feeding text lines images into a
classifier), and finally serialization of results into an appropriate format
such as ALTO or PageXML.

Input and Outputs
-----------------

Kraken inputs and their outputs can be defined in multiple ways. The most
simple are input-output pairs, i.e. producing one output document for one input
document follow the basic syntax:

.. code-block:: console

        $ kraken -i input_1 output_1 -i input_2 output_2 ... subcommand_1 subcommand_2 ... subcommand_n

In particular subcommands may be chained.

There are other ways to define inputs and outputs as the syntax shown above can
become rather cumbersome for large amounts of files.

As such there are a couple of ways to deal with multiple files in a compact
way. The first is batch processing:

.. code-block:: console

        $ kraken -I '*.png' -o ocr.txt segment ...

which expands the `glob expression
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glob_(programming)>`_ in kraken internally and
appends the suffix defined with `-o` to each output file. An input file
`xyz.png` will therefore produce an output file `xyz.png.ocr.txt`. `-I` batch
inputs can also be specified multiple times:

.. code-block:: console

        $ kraken -I '*.png' -I '*.jpg' -I '*.tif' -o ocr.txt segment ...

A second way is to input multi-image files directly. These can be either in
PDF, TIFF, or JPEG2000 format and are specified like:

.. code-block:: console

        $ kraken -I some.pdf -o ocr.txt -f pdf segment ...

This will internally extract all page images from the input PDF file and write
one output file with an index (can be changed using the `-p` option) and the
suffix defined with `-o`.

The `-f` option can not only be used to extract data from PDF/TIFF/JPEG2000
files but also various XML formats. In these cases the appropriate data is
automatically selected from the inputs, image data for segmentation or line and
region segmentation for recognition:

.. code-block:: console

        $ kraken -i alto.xml alto.ocr.txt -i page.xml page.ocr.txt -f xml ocr ...

The code is able to automatically determine if a file is in PageXML or ALTO format.

Output formats
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

All commands have a default output format such as raw text for `ocr`, a plain
image for `binarize`, or a JSON definition of the the segmentation for
`segment`. These are specific to kraken and generally not suitable for further
processing by other software but a number of standardized data exchange formats
can be selected. Per default `ALTO <http://www.loc.gov/standards/alto/>`_,
`PageXML <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PAGE_(XML)>`_, `hOCR
<http://hocr.info>`_, and abbyyXML containing additional metadata such as
bounding boxes and confidences are implemented. In addition, custom `jinja
<https://jinja.palletsprojects.com>`_ templates can be loaded to create
individualised output such as TEI.

Output formats are selected on the main `kraken` command and apply to the last
subcommand defined in the subcommand chain. For example:

.. code-block:: console

        $ kraken --alto -i ... segment -bl

will serialize a plain segmentation in ALTO into the specified output file.

The currently available format switches are:

.. code-block:: console

        $ kraken -n -i ... ... # native output
        $ kraken -a -i ... ... # ALTO output
        $ kraken -x -i ... ... # PageXML output
        $ kraken -h -i ... ... # hOCR output
        $ kraken -y -i ... ... # abbyyXML output

Custom templates can be loaded with the ``--template`` option:

.. code-block:: console

        $ kraken --template /my/awesome/template.tmpl -i ... ...

The data objects used by the templates are considered internal to kraken and
can change from time to time. The best way to get some orientation when writing
a new template from scratch is to have a look at the existing templates `here
<https://github.com/mittagessen/kraken/tree/main/kraken/templates>`_.

Binarization
------------

.. _binarization:

.. note::

   Binarization is deprecated and mostly not necessary anymore. It can often
   worsen text recognition results especially for documents with uneven
   lighting, faint writing, etc.

The binarization subcommand converts a color or grayscale input image into an
image containing only two color levels: white (background) and black
(foreground, i.e. text). It accepts almost the same parameters as
``ocropus-nlbin``. Only options not related to binarization, e.g. skew
detection are missing. In addition, error checking (image sizes, inversion
detection, grayscale enforcement) is always disabled and kraken will happily
binarize any image that is thrown at it.

Available parameters are:

============    ====
option          type
============    ====
\--threshold    FLOAT
\--zoom         FLOAT
\--escale       FLOAT
\--border       FLOAT
\--perc         INTEGER RANGE
\--range        INTEGER
\--low          INTEGER RANGE
\--high         INTEGER RANGE
============    ====

To binarize a image:

.. code-block:: console

        $ kraken -i input.jpg bw.png binarize

.. note::

        Some image formats, notably JPEG, do not support a black and white
        image mode. Per default the output format according to the output file
        name extension will be honored. If this is not possible, a warning will
        be printed and the output forced to PNG:

        .. code-block:: console

                $ kraken -i input.jpg bw.jpg binarize
                Binarizing	[06/24/22 09:56:23] WARNING  jpeg does not support 1bpp images. Forcing to png.
                ✓

Page Segmentation
-----------------

The `segment` subcommand accesses page segmentation into lines and regions with
the two layout analysis methods implemented: the trainable baseline segmenter
that is capable of detecting both lines of different types and regions and a
legacy non-trainable segmenter that produces bounding boxes.

Universal parameters of either segmenter are:

=============================================== ======
option                                          action
=============================================== ======
-d, \--text-direction                           Sets principal text direction. Valid values are `horizontal-lr`, `horizontal-rl`, `vertical-lr`, and `vertical-rl`.
-m, \--mask                                     Segmentation mask suppressing page areas for line detection. A simple black and white mask image where 0-valued (black) areas are ignored for segmentation purposes.
=============================================== ======

Baseline Segmentation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The baseline segmenter works by applying a segmentation model on a page image
which labels each pixel on the image with one or more classes with each class
corresponding to a line or region of a specific type. In addition there are two
auxiliary classes that are used to determine the line orientation. A simplified
example of a composite image of the auxiliary classes and a single line type
without regions can be seen below:

.. image:: _static/blla_heatmap.jpg
  :width: 800
  :alt: BLLA output heatmap

In a second step the raw heatmap is vectorized to extract line instances and
region boundaries, followed by bounding polygon computation for the baselines,
and text line ordering. The final output can be visualized as:

.. image:: _static/blla_output.jpg
  :width: 800
  :alt: BLLA final output

The primary determinant of segmentation quality is the segmentation model
employed. There is a default model that works reasonably well on printed and
handwritten material on undegraded, even writing surfaces such as paper or
parchment. The output of this model consists of a single line type and a
generic text region class that denotes coherent blocks of text. This model is
employed automatically when the baseline segment is activated with the `-bl`
option:

.. code-block:: console

   $ kraken -i input.jpg segmentation.json segment -bl

New models optimized for other kinds of documents can be trained (see
:ref:`here <segtrain>`). These can be applied with the `-i` option of the
`segment` subcommand:

.. code-block:: console

   $ kraken -i input.jpg segmentation.json segment -bl -i fancy_model.mlmodel

Legacy Box Segmentation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The legacy page segmentation is mostly parameterless, although a couple of
switches exist to tweak it for particular inputs. Its output consists of
rectangular bounding boxes in reading order and the general text direction
(horizontal, i.e. LTR or RTL text in top-to-bottom reading order or
vertical-ltr/rtl for vertical lines read from left-to-right or right-to-left).

Apart from the limitations of the bounding box paradigm (rotated and curved
lines cannot be effectively extracted) another important drawback of the legacy
segmenter is the requirement for binarized input images. It is therefore
necessary to apply :ref:`binarization <binarization>` first or supply only
pre-binarized inputs.

The legacy segmenter can be applied on some input image with:

.. code-block:: console

        $ kraken -i 14.tif lines.json segment -x
        $ cat lines.json

Available specific parameters are:

=============================================== ======
option                                          action
=============================================== ======
\--scale FLOAT                                  Estimate of the average line height on the page
-m, \--maxcolseps                               Maximum number of columns in the input document. Set to `0` for uni-column layouts.
-b, \--black-colseps / -w, \--white-colseps     Switch to black column separators.
-r, \--remove-hlines / -l, \--hlines            Disables prefiltering of small horizontal lines. Improves segmenter output on some Arabic texts.
-p, \--pad                                      Adds left and right padding around lines in the output.
=============================================== ======

Principal Text Direction
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The principal text direction selected with the ``-d/--text-direction`` is a
switch used in the reading order heuristic to determine the order of text
blocks (regions) and individual lines. It roughly corresponds to the `block
flow direction
<https://www.w3.org/TR/css-writing-modes-3/#block-flow-direction>`_ in CSS with
an additional option. Valid options consist of two parts, an initial principal
line orientation (`horizontal` or `vertical`) followed by a block order (`lr`
for left-to-right or `rl` for right-to-left).

.. warning:

        The principal text direction is independent of the direction of the
        *inline text direction* (which is left-to-right for writing systems like
        Latin and right-to-left for ones like Hebrew or Arabic). Kraken deals
        automatically with the inline text direction through the BiDi algorithm
        but can't infer the principal text direction automatically as it is
        determined by factors like layout, type of document, primary script in
        the document, and other factors. The different types of text
        directionality and their relation can be confusing, the `W3C writing
        mode <https://www.w3.org/TR/css-writing-modes-3/>`_ document explains
        the fundamentals, although the model used in Kraken differs slightly.

The first part is usually `horizontal` for scripts like Latin, Arabic, or
Hebrew where the lines are horizontally oriented on the page and are written/read from
top to bottom:

.. image:: _static/bw.png
  :width: 800
  :alt: Horizontal Latin script text

Other scripts like Chinese can be written with vertical lines that are
written/read from left to right or right to left:

.. image:: https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/66/Chinese_manuscript_Ti-i_ch%27i-shu._Wellcome_L0020843.jpg/577px-Chinese_manuscript_Ti-i_ch%27i-shu._Wellcome_L0020843.jpg
  :width: 800
  :alt: Vertical Chinese text

The second part is dependent on a number of factors as the order in which text
blocks are read is not fixed for every writing system. In mono-script texts it
is usually determined by the inline text direction, i.e. Latin script texts
columns are read starting with the top-left column followed by the column to
its right and so on, continuing with the left-most column below if none remain
to the right (inverse for right-to-left scripts like Arabic which start on the
top right-most columns, continuing leftward, and returning to the right-most
column just below when none remain).

In multi-script documents the order of is determined by the primary writing
system employed in the document, e.g. for a modern book containing both Latin
and Arabic script text it would be set to `lr` when Latin is primary, e.g. when
the binding is on the left side of the book seen from the title cover, and
vice-versa (`rl` if binding is on the right on the title cover). The analogue
applies to text written with vertical lines.

With these explications there are four different text directions available:

=============================================== ======
Text Direction                                  Examples
=============================================== ======
horizontal-lr                                   Latin script texts, Mixed LTR/RTL docs with principal LTR script
horizontal-rl                                   Arabic script texts, Mixed LTR/RTL docs with principal RTL script
vertical-lr                                     Vertical script texts read from left-to-right.
vertical-rl                                     Vertical script texts read from right-to-left.
=============================================== ======

Masking
^^^^^^^

It is possible to keep the segmenter from finding text lines and regions on
certain areas of the input image. This is done through providing a binary mask
image that has the same size as the input image where blocked out regions are
black and valid regions white:

.. code-block:: console

        $ kraken -i input.jpg segmentation.json segment -bl -m mask.png

Model Repository
----------------

.. _repo:

There is a semi-curated `repository
<https://zenodo.org/communities/ocr_models>`_ of freely licensed recognition
models that can be interacted with from the command line using a few
subcommands.

Querying and Model Retrieval
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The ``list`` subcommand retrieves a list of all models available and prints
them including some additional information (identifier, type, and a short
description):

.. code-block:: console

        $ kraken list
        Retrieving model list ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━ 100% 8/8 0:00:00 0:00:07
        10.5281/zenodo.6542744 (pytorch) - LECTAUREP Contemporary French Model (Administration)
        10.5281/zenodo.5617783 (pytorch) - Cremma-Medieval Old French Model (Litterature)
        10.5281/zenodo.5468665 (pytorch) - Medieval Hebrew manuscripts in Sephardi bookhand version 1.0
        ...

To access more detailed information the ``show`` subcommand may be used:

.. code-block:: console

        $ kraken show 10.5281/zenodo.5617783
        name: 10.5281/zenodo.5617783

        Cremma-Medieval Old French Model (Litterature)

        ....
        scripts: Latn
        alphabet: &'(),-.0123456789:;?ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVXabcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz¶ãíñõ÷ħĩłũƺᵉẽ’•⁊⁹ꝑꝓꝯꝰ SPACE, COMBINING ACUTE ACCENT, COMBINING TILDE, COMBINING MACRON, COMBINING ZIGZAG ABOVE, COMBINING LATIN SMALL LETTER A, COMBINING LATIN SMALL LETTER E, COMBINING LATIN SMALL LETTER I, COMBINING LATIN SMALL LETTER O, COMBINING LATIN SMALL LETTER U, COMBINING LATIN SMALL LETTER C, COMBINING LATIN SMALL LETTER R, COMBINING LATIN SMALL LETTER T, COMBINING UR ABOVE, COMBINING US ABOVE, COMBINING LATIN SMALL LETTER S, 0xe8e5, 0xf038, 0xf128
        accuracy: 95.49%
        license: CC-BY-SA-2.0
        author(s): Pinche, Ariane
        date: 2021-10-29

If a suitable model has been decided upon it can be retrieved using the ``get``
subcommand:

.. code-block:: console

        $ kraken get 10.5281/zenodo.5617783
        Processing ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━ 100% 16.1/16.1 MB 0:00:00 0:00:10
        Model name: cremma_medieval_bicerin.mlmodel

Models will be placed in ``$XDG_BASE_DIR`` and can be accessed using their name as
printed in the last line of the ``kraken get`` output.

.. code-block:: console

        $ kraken -i ... ... ocr -m cremma_medieval_bicerin.mlmodel

Publishing
^^^^^^^^^^

When one would like to share a model with the wider world (for fame and glory!)
it is possible (and recommended) to upload them to repository. The process
consists of 2 stages: the creation of the deposit on the Zenodo platform
followed by approval of the model in the community making it discoverable for
other kraken users.

For uploading model a Zenodo account and a personal access token is required.
After account creation tokens can be created under the account settings:

.. image:: _static/pat.png
  :width: 800
  :alt: Zenodo token creation dialogue

With the token models can then be uploaded:

.. code-block:: console

   $ ketos publish -a $ACCESS_TOKEN aaebv2-2.mlmodel
   DOI: 10.5281/zenodo.5617783

A number of important metadata will be asked for such as a short description of
the model, long form description, recognized scripts, and authorship.
Afterwards the model is deposited at Zenodo. This deposit is persistent, i.e.
can't be changed or deleted so it is important to make sure that all the
information is correct. Each deposit also has a unique persistent identifier, a
DOI, that can be used to refer to it, e.g. in publications or when pointing
someone to a particular model.

Once the deposit has been created a request (requiring manual approval) for
inclusion in the repository will automatically be created which will make it
discoverable by other users.

It is possible to deposit models without including them in the queryable
repository. Models uploaded this way are not truly private and can still be
found through the standard Zenodo search and be downloaded with `kraken get`
and its DOI. It is mostly suggested for preliminary models that might get
updated later:

.. code-block:: console

   $ ketos publish --private -a $ACCESS_TOKEN aaebv2-2.mlmodel
   DOI: 10.5281/zenodo.5617734

Recognition
-----------

Recognition requires a grey-scale or binarized image, a page segmentation for
that image, and a model file. In particular there is no requirement to use the
page segmentation algorithm contained in the ``segment`` subcommand or the
binarization provided by kraken.

Multi-script recognition is possible by supplying a script-annotated
segmentation and a mapping between scripts and models:

.. code-block:: console

        $ kraken -i ... ... ocr -m Grek:porson.clstm -m Latn:antiqua.clstm

All polytonic Greek text portions will be recognized using the `porson.clstm`
model while Latin text will be fed into the `antiqua.clstm` model. It is
possible to define a fallback model that other text will be fed to:

.. code-block:: console

        $ kraken -i ... ... ocr -m ... -m ... -m default:porson.clstm

It is also possible to disable recognition on a particular script by mapping to
the special model keyword `ignore`. Ignored lines will still be serialized but
will not contain any recognition results.
